1.	Open the patient file (PCD_patient_file.csv) and count how many patients are in the file, how many men and women there are, and how many patients have died.
(Hint: sex is coded as 1 for men and 2 for women) 

  Answer: 400 patients, 191 men (sex=1) and 209 women (sex=2), 16 patients have died

2.	Look up patient with ID number 216. How old were they when they registered with the practice, and how old were they at the last data collection date? 
(Hint: use lastdate, birth_date and registration_date)

  This woman (sex = 2) was 19 when she registered, 33 at the last data collection date and no transfer out or death date so she is still registered with the same practice. There should be about 14 years of primary care data for her. 

3.	Open the diagnosis file (PCD_diagnosis_file.csv) and just take a look at the file itself. You’ll see each patient can have multiple diagnoses recorded (using read codes), over time or on the same day. How many diagnoses are recorded, and what is the most common diagnosis code? 
(Hint: if you are using excel, you can use UNIQUE() and COUNTIF() functions)

  Answer: 12,412 diagnoses for 372 patients, and 9N11.00 (555 times): Seen in GP’s surgery

4.	Now try to look up a specific condition, for instance non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus (you might want to start with Read code C109.00). How many times has a diagnosis for this condition been entered? Would you want to use any other Read codes to enhance the phenotype? (Hint: look up code lists for diabetes on the HDR UK phenotype library https://phenotypes.healthdatagateway.org/   

  Answer: 24 times (for 7 individual patients). The phenotype library has a code list for diabetes (PH152) which includes 135 different Read codes. 

5.	Coming back to patient with ID 216, what does their diagnosis history look like? Does this patient have any underlying chronic health conditions? 
(Hint: make sure the data are sorted chronologically according to diagnosis_date)

  Answer: The patient has asthma, which is recorded soon after she registers. From the diagnosis codes it also seems like she has delivered at least one child and has had several more pregnancies which were high risk and several ended in miscarriages. 

6.	Now open the prescription file (PCD_prescription_file.csv). Same as the diagnosis file, start by just having a look a the layout of the file and see how many prescriptions were issued for this group of patients. 

  Answer: 26,879 prescriptions for 311patients

7.	Which is the most common prescription? 
(Hint: if you are using excel, you can use UNIQUE() and COUNTIF() functions)

  Answer: aspirin with 434 prescriptions

8.	Look at patient 216 again, they only had 1 diagnosis code for an underlying condition. Does their prescription history give you more information on the severity or duration of this condition? 

  Answer: looking at their prescription history, regular prescriptions for asthma inhalers (salbutamol) over the years show the patient continued to need medication. Plus prescriptions for oral corticosteroids (prednisolone) and antibiotics (amoxicillin) could indicate exacerbations. 
